docs: adds server api docs (#2544)
grafana/pyroscope: docs/sources/configure-server/about-server-api.md

---
description: Learn about the Pyrocope server API
menuTitle: Server API Overview
title: Pyroscope Server HTTP API Reference
weight: 20
---

# Pyroscope Server HTTP API Reference

Pyroscope server exposes an HTTP API that can be used to query profiling data and to ingest profiling data from other sources.

## Authentication

> TODO - how does authentication work with new Grafana cloud stuff?

Author: how does authentication work with new API

> TODO - how does authentication work with new Grafana cloud stuff?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana Pyroscope does not come with any included authentication layer. Operators are expected to run an authenticating reverse proxy in front of your services.

Note that when using Pyroscope in multi-tenant mode, Pyroscope requires the HTTP header `X-Scope-OrgID` to be set to a string identifying the tenant; the responsibility of populating this value should be handled by the authenticating reverse proxy. Please refer to the [multi-tenancy documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/pyroscope/latest/configure-server/about-tenant-ids) for more information.
```

I'm not sure we should cover Grafana Cloud auth here. Should we maybe update the hosted instance page (where the credentials are obtained) with some examples?

## Ingestion

Currently there's just one endpoint: `POST /ingest`. It takes profile data in request body and metadata as query params.

It takes multiple query parameters:

| Name               | Description                             | Notes                           |
|:-------------------|:----------------------------------------|:--------------------------------|
| `name`             | application name                        | required |
| `from`             | UNIX time of when the profiling started | required                        |
| `until`            | UNIX time of when the profiling stopped | required                        |
| `format`           | format of the profiling data            | optional (default is `folded`)  |
| `sampleRate`       | sample rate used in Hz                  | optional (default is 100 Hz)    |
| `spyName`          | name of the spy used                    | optional                        |
| `units`            | name of the profiling data unit         | optional (default is `samples`  |

> | `aggregrationType` | type of aggregration to merge profiles  | optional (default is `sum`)     |

Reviewer: We probably want to review the list of params, and remove some of them:
 - `name` – as Ryan mentioned, we need to make sure the new series labels format is supported;
 - `spyName` – could be part of series labels;
 - `units` - should be part of the profile type (a label);
 - `aggegationType` – unused.

---
description: Learn about the Pyrocope server API
menuTitle: Server API Overview
title: Pyroscope Server HTTP API Reference
weight: 20
---

# Pyroscope Server HTTP API Reference

Pyroscope server exposes an HTTP API that can be used to query profiling data and to ingest profiling data from other sources.

## Authentication
Grafana Pyroscope does not come with any included authentication layer. Operators are expected to run an authenticating reverse proxy in front of your services.

> Note that when using Pyroscope in multi-tenant mode, Pyroscope requires the HTTP header `X-Scope-OrgID` to be set to a string identifying the tenant; the responsibility of populating this value should be handled by the authenticating reverse proxy. Please refer to the [multi-tenancy documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/pyroscope/latest/configure-server/about-tenant-ids) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that when using Pyroscope in multi-tenant mode, Pyroscope requires the HTTP header `X-Scope-OrgID` to be set to a string identifying the tenant; the responsibility of populating this value should be handled by the authenticating reverse proxy. Please refer to the [multi-tenancy documentation]({{< relref "./about-tenant-ids" >}}) for more information.
```

It takes multiple query parameters:

| Name               | Description                             | Notes                           |
|:-------------------|:----------------------------------------|:--------------------------------|
| `name`             | application name                        | required |
| `from`             | UNIX time of when the profiling started | required                        |
| `until`            | UNIX time of when the profiling stopped | required                        |
| `format`           | format of the profiling data            | optional (default is `folded`)  |
| `sampleRate`       | sample rate used in Hz                  | optional (default is 100 Hz)    |
| `spyName`          | name of the spy used                    | optional                        |
| `units`            | name of the profiling data unit         | optional (default is `samples`  |
| `aggregrationType` | type of aggregration to merge profiles  | optional (default is `sum`)     |

* `name` specifies application name. It may be specified in the fully qualified application name notation as described in [the specification](/docs/flameql#notation). For example:
```

> my.awesome.app.cpu{env=staging,region=us-west-1}

Author: how does this work now with `{service_name="xyz"}`

Reviewer: Our `/ingestion` API won't be able to handle labels in the new format.

I think it's better to add a new parameter (to avoid clashes with the old logic), like `labels` and not to mention `name` and flameql here as to not confuse users. We will handle both params it in the backend, but only `labels` should be part of the public API
